Alright, so let's get back to the documentation
about mutable sequence types.
We'll place the link into the browser.
So looking at this table again, it might
look quite confusing. The first five
operations are using indexing and
slicing to change items in the sequence.
Make sure that you're happy using
indexes and slices. Review the videos in
section five if necessary, because we'll
be using slices in this video. So the
first operation in this table uses
indexing to replace an item in the list.
So we're going to continue with lists
_intro.py for this example.
So I'm going to go back and open that up:
lists_intro.py.
Now we're going to delete everything here
except the list on lines one through six.
On line seven we're going to print out
our lists our print parentheses computer
underscore parts. Let's now replace the
mouse in our list with a trackball.
The mouse is at index position three, so
let's modify it and then print it out again.
So on line nine I'm going to type
computer_ parts,
left square bracket, 3, right square
bracket, equals, then what we want to set it to,
in this case, to trackball. So trackball, surrounded in double quotes
because it's a string. Let's now print
the list again, so print computer
underscore parts. Let's run the program.
You can see mouse is in the first list,
printed out on line seven. And now
that we've made the change on line nine,
when we print out the second time, we
see trackball replacing mouse. When we're
dealing with strings, we could get the
character at a particular index position.
Strings are immutable, so we can't
replace one character with another. When
working with a mutable sequence type
such as a list, though, we can also
replace items. So let's go back to
the browser, and that's what this first
operation in that table's saying. If you've
got a mutable sequence called s, we can
assign a new value to the item at index
position i. Now the second operation is
similar, but this time it refers to a
slice. Notice that it's referring to an
iterable this time. X on the line above is an object.
We used a string in our example,
but any suitable object would also have
worked. The second operation is talking
about an iterable.
Also notice the subtle difference in the
two descriptions for those two
operations. The description for the first one, s,
i in square brackets equals x, says that
item i is replaced by x. For the second
operation, the description says that the
slice will be replaced by the contents
of t. So it's easy to miss subtle things
like that, when you're just starting to
read the documentation. But don't worry
because as you get more experience with
the documentation, it soon starts to make
sense, and as you progress through this
course, you'll start paying attention to
the way things are phrased. When you get
strange results, as we're about to do,
it's easy to get frustrated.
In fact, it's perfectly normal to get
frustrated. Frustration is a natural
state for a programmer. There are very
few things that are as frustrating as
learning to program, and that's
especially true when you're trying to
make sense of documentation like this,
without an example. For an example, going
back to our code, note that we don't
really need a mouse mat if we're
using a trackball. We can replace both
items at once by specifying a slice
instead of an index. So what I'm going to
do is start out by printing out the
slice, so that we can see what we're
changing. I'm also going to comment out
the trackball on line 9, and we're going
to change line 10. Instead of me just
printing out the list of computer parts,
we're going to add a square bracket to
the end of computer parts, 3: in those square brackets.
So basically, we're printing out the
items starting at position 3, extending
up to the end of the list, and that
should be the mouse and the mouse mat.
So let's run the program and confirm that
is the case. We can see that the slice,
3: in square brackets, is the mouse and the
mat. So we've got the correct slice here.
At this point we can now replace the
slice with a trackball, so let's try
to do that. So our first attempt
might be something along the lines of
computer_parts square brackets 3:
In those square brackets equals
trackball in double quotes,
print computer parts on the next line. Now
that looks reasonable. Let's see what
happens when I run that. Of course you
knew that something strange was going to happen.
I gave that away when we were
looking at the documentation.
What's happened, looking at the final line of
the output, is that each of the
characters in the string trackball, have
been added to the list individually.
And that's what the documentation means
when it says that the slice is replaced
by the contents of the iterable. To fix
the problem, we want the iterable
containing a single item - the string
trackball. Now we're working with an
iterable type at the moment - lists are
iterables. In fact, all sequence types are
iterables. To get the result we want, we
can put the trackball string into a list.
So I'm gonna make the right-hand side of
the assignment on line 12 slightly different.
So let's make that, well let's
surround that, in square brackets,
effectively making it a list. So this
time when I run the program, we get the
result we wanted. The two items - mouse and mouse mat - have now been replaced with trackball.
The main thing I want you to
learn from this video isn't about using
a slice in a list. The really important part is about the
documentation. Be aware of subtle
differences in the way things are
phrased. If two descriptions are
different, like the first two back here,
in the list of operations on mutable
sequences, then you'll know that their
behavior will be different. Alright, so
let's end the video here and in the next one,
we'll look at an example of deleting items
from a list. See you in the next video.